doc/plugin_agent_workloadattestor_k8s.md, before:

# Agent plugin: WorkloadAttestor "k8s"

The `k8s` plugin generates Kubernetes-based selectors for workloads calling the agent.
It does so by retrieving the workload's pod ID from its cgroup membership, then querying
the kubelet for information about the pod.

The plugin can talk to the kubelet via the insecure read-only port or the
secure port. Both X509 client authentication and bearer token (e.g. service
account token) authentication to the secure port is supported.

Verifying the certificate presented by the kubelet over the secure port is
optional. The default is to verify, based on the certificate file passed via
`kubelet_ca_path`. `skip_kubelet_verification` can be set to disable
verification.

The agent will contact the kubelet using the node name obtained via the
`node_name_env` or `node_name` configurables. If a node name is not obtained,
the kubelet is contacted over 127.0.0.1 (requires host networking to be
enabled). In the latter case, the hostname is used to perform certificate
server name validation against the kubelet certificate.

> **Note** kubelet authentication via bearer token requires that the kubelet be
> started with the `--authentication-token-webhook` flag. 
> See [Kubelet authentication/authorization](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kubelet-authentication-authorization/)
> for details.

> **Note** The kubelet uses the TokenReview API to validate bearer tokens. 
> This requires reachability to the Kubernetes API server. Therefore API server downtime can
> interrupt workload attestation. The `--authentication-token-webhook-cache-ttl` kubelet flag
> controls how long the kubelet caches TokenReview responses and may help to
> mitigate this issue. A large cache ttl value is not recommended however, as
> that can impact permission revocation.

| Configuration | Description |
| ------------- | ----------- |
| `kubelet_read_only_port` | The kubelet read-only port. This is mutually exlusive with `kubelet_secure_port`. |
| `kubelet_secure_port` | The kubelet secure port. It defaults to `10250` unless `kubelet_read_only_port` is set. |
| `kubelet_ca_path` | The path on disk to a file containing CA certificates used to verify the kubelet certificate. Required unless `skip_kubelet_verification` is set. Defaults to the cluster CA bundle `/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/ca.crt`. |
| `skip_kubelet_verification` | If true, kubelet certificate verification is skipped |
| `token_path` | The path on disk to the bearer token used for kubelet authentication. Defaults to the service account token `/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/token` |
| `certificate_path` | The path on disk to client certificate used for kubelet authentication |
| `private_key_path` | The path on disk to client key used for kubelet authentication |
| `node_name_env` | The environment variable used to obtain the node name. Defaults to `MY_NODE_NAME`. |
| `node_name` | The name of the node. Overrides the value obtained by the environment variable specified by `node_name_env`. |
| `skip_signature_verification_image_list`| The list of images, described as digest hashes, that should be skipped in signature verification. |
| `enable_allowed_subjects_list`| Enables a list of allowed subjects that are trusted and are allowed to sign container images artificats.|
| `allowed_subjects_list`| The list of allowed subjects enabled by `enable_allowed_subjects_list` each entry represents subject e-mail. |

| Selector | Value |
| -------- | ----- |
| k8s:ns                   | The workload's namespace |
| k8s:sa                   | The workload's service account |
| k8s:container-image      | The Image OR ImageID of the container in the workload's pod which is requesting an SVID, [as reported by K8S](https://pkg.go.dev/k8s.io/api/core/v1#ContainerStatus). Selector value may be an image tag, such as: `docker.io/envoyproxy/envoy-alpine:v1.16.0`, or a resolved SHA256 image digest, such as `docker.io/envoyproxy/envoy-alpine@sha256:bf862e5f5eca0a73e7e538224578c5cf867ce2be91b5eaed22afc153c00363eb` |
| k8s:container-name       | The name of the workload's container |
| k8s:node-name            | The name of the workload's node |
| k8s:pod-label            | A label given to the workload's pod |
| k8s:pod-owner            | The name of the workload's pod owner |
| k8s:pod-owner-uid        | The UID of the workload's pod owner |
| k8s:pod-uid              | The UID of the workload's pod |
| k8s:pod-name             | The name of the workload's pod |
| k8s:pod-image            | An Image OR ImageID of any container in the workload's pod, [as reported by K8S](https://pkg.go.dev/k8s.io/api/core/v1#ContainerStatus). Selector value may be an image tag, such as: `docker.io/envoyproxy/envoy-alpine:v1.16.0`, or a resolved SHA256 image digest, such as `docker.io/envoyproxy/envoy-alpine@sha256:bf862e5f5eca0a73e7e538224578c5cf867ce2be91b5eaed22afc153c00363eb`|
| k8s:pod-image-count      | The number of container images in workload's pod |
| k8s:pod-init-image       | An Image OR ImageID of any init container in the workload's pod, [as reported by K8S](https://pkg.go.dev/k8s.io/api/core/v1#ContainerStatus). Selector value may be an image tag, such as: `docker.io/envoyproxy/envoy-alpine:v1.16.0`, or a resolved SHA256 image digest, such as `docker.io/envoyproxy/envoy-alpine@sha256:bf862e5f5eca0a73e7e538224578c5cf867ce2be91b5eaed22afc153c00363eb`|
| k8s:pod-init-image-count | The number of init container images in workload's pod |
| k8s:signature-content    | The value of the signature itself in a hash|
| k8s:signature-verified   | The confirmation if the signature is valid |
> **Note** `container-image` will ONLY match against the specific container in the pod that is contacting SPIRE on behalf of 
> the pod, whereas `pod-image` and `pod-init-image` will match against ANY container or init container in the Pod, 
> respectively.

## Examples

To use the kubelet read-only port:

```
WorkloadAttestor "k8s" {
  plugin_data {
    kubelet_read_only_port = 10255
  }
}
```

To use the secure kubelet port, verify via `/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/ca.crt`, and authenticate via the default service account token:

```
WorkloadAttestor "k8s" {
  plugin_data {
  }
}
```

To use the secure kubelet port, skip verification, and authenticate via the default service account token:

```
WorkloadAttestor "k8s" {
  plugin_data {
    skip_kubelet_verification = true
  }
}
```

To use the secure kubelet port, skip verification, and authenticate via some other token:

```
WorkloadAttestor "k8s" {
  plugin_data {
    skip_kubelet_verification = true
    token_path = "/path/to/token"
  }
}
```

To use the secure kubelet port, verify the kubelet certificate, and authenticate via an X509 client certificate:

```
WorkloadAttestor "k8s" {
  plugin_data {
    kubelet_ca_path = "/path/to/kubelet-ca.pem"
    certificate_path = "/path/to/cert.pem"
    private_key_path = "/path/to/key.pem"
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Sigstore crd (#30)
* adding missing logic on CRD k8s-workload-registrar

* fixed tests

* fix: removed sigstore selector in node registration entry

* fix: removed old log

* fix: lint and unit tests

* fix: fixed flooding of registrar logs.
fix: improved coverage to include sigstore selector inclusion

* tests: modified tests to account for CheckSignatureEnabled

* fix: addressing lint complaints

* removing unneeded field

* renamed last mentions of "signature-verified:true"

* fix: integration tests had a double "$"

doc/plugin_agent_workloadattestor_k8s.md, after:

# Agent plugin: WorkloadAttestor "k8s"

The `k8s` plugin generates Kubernetes-based selectors for workloads calling the agent.
It does so by retrieving the workload's pod ID from its cgroup membership, then querying
the kubelet for information about the pod.

The plugin can talk to the kubelet via the insecure read-only port or the
secure port. Both X509 client authentication and bearer token (e.g. service
account token) authentication to the secure port is supported.

Verifying the certificate presented by the kubelet over the secure port is
optional. The default is to verify, based on the certificate file passed via
`kubelet_ca_path`. `skip_kubelet_verification` can be set to disable
verification.

The agent will contact the kubelet using the node name obtained via the
`node_name_env` or `node_name` configurables. If a node name is not obtained,
the kubelet is contacted over 127.0.0.1 (requires host networking to be
enabled). In the latter case, the hostname is used to perform certificate
server name validation against the kubelet certificate.

> **Note** kubelet authentication via bearer token requires that the kubelet be
> started with the `--authentication-token-webhook` flag. 
> See [Kubelet authentication/authorization](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kubelet-authentication-authorization/)
> for details.

> **Note** The kubelet uses the TokenReview API to validate bearer tokens. 
> This requires reachability to the Kubernetes API server. Therefore API server downtime can
> interrupt workload attestation. The `--authentication-token-webhook-cache-ttl` kubelet flag
> controls how long the kubelet caches TokenReview responses and may help to
> mitigate this issue. A large cache ttl value is not recommended however, as
> that can impact permission revocation.

| Configuration | Description |
| ------------- | ----------- |
| `kubelet_read_only_port` | The kubelet read-only port. This is mutually exlusive with `kubelet_secure_port`. |
| `kubelet_secure_port` | The kubelet secure port. It defaults to `10250` unless `kubelet_read_only_port` is set. |
| `kubelet_ca_path` | The path on disk to a file containing CA certificates used to verify the kubelet certificate. Required unless `skip_kubelet_verification` is set. Defaults to the cluster CA bundle `/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/ca.crt`. |
| `skip_kubelet_verification` | If true, kubelet certificate verification is skipped |
| `token_path` | The path on disk to the bearer token used for kubelet authentication. Defaults to the service account token `/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/token` |
| `certificate_path` | The path on disk to client certificate used for kubelet authentication |
| `private_key_path` | The path on disk to client key used for kubelet authentication |
| `node_name_env` | The environment variable used to obtain the node name. Defaults to `MY_NODE_NAME`. |
| `node_name` | The name of the node. Overrides the value obtained by the environment variable specified by `node_name_env`. |
| `skip_signature_verification_image_list`| The list of images, described as digest hashes, that should be skipped in signature verification. |
| `enable_allowed_subjects_list`| Enables a list of allowed subjects that are trusted and are allowed to sign container images artificats.|
| `allowed_subjects_list`| The list of allowed subjects enabled by `enable_allowed_subjects_list` each entry represents subject e-mail. |

| Selector | Value |
| -------- | ----- |
| k8s:ns                   | The workload's namespace |
| k8s:sa                   | The workload's service account |
| k8s:container-image      | The Image OR ImageID of the container in the workload's pod which is requesting an SVID, [as reported by K8S](https://pkg.go.dev/k8s.io/api/core/v1#ContainerStatus). Selector value may be an image tag, such as: `docker.io/envoyproxy/envoy-alpine:v1.16.0`, or a resolved SHA256 image digest, such as `docker.io/envoyproxy/envoy-alpine@sha256:bf862e5f5eca0a73e7e538224578c5cf867ce2be91b5eaed22afc153c00363eb` |
| k8s:container-name       | The name of the workload's container |
| k8s:node-name            | The name of the workload's node |
| k8s:pod-label            | A label given to the workload's pod |
| k8s:pod-owner            | The name of the workload's pod owner |
| k8s:pod-owner-uid        | The UID of the workload's pod owner |
| k8s:pod-uid              | The UID of the workload's pod |
| k8s:pod-name             | The name of the workload's pod |
| k8s:pod-image            | An Image OR ImageID of any container in the workload's pod, [as reported by K8S](https://pkg.go.dev/k8s.io/api/core/v1#ContainerStatus). Selector value may be an image tag, such as: `docker.io/envoyproxy/envoy-alpine:v1.16.0`, or a resolved SHA256 image digest, such as `docker.io/envoyproxy/envoy-alpine@sha256:bf862e5f5eca0a73e7e538224578c5cf867ce2be91b5eaed22afc153c00363eb`|
| k8s:pod-image-count      | The number of container images in workload's pod |
| k8s:pod-init-image       | An Image OR ImageID of any init container in the workload's pod, [as reported by K8S](https://pkg.go.dev/k8s.io/api/core/v1#ContainerStatus). Selector value may be an image tag, such as: `docker.io/envoyproxy/envoy-alpine:v1.16.0`, or a resolved SHA256 image digest, such as `docker.io/envoyproxy/envoy-alpine@sha256:bf862e5f5eca0a73e7e538224578c5cf867ce2be91b5eaed22afc153c00363eb`|
| k8s:pod-init-image-count | The number of init container images in workload's pod |
| k8s:signature-content    | The value of the signature itself in a hash|
| k8s:sigstore-validation   | The confirmation if the signature is valid, has value of "passed" (eg. "k8s:sigstore-validation:passed") |
> **Note** `container-image` will ONLY match against the specific container in the pod that is contacting SPIRE on behalf of 
> the pod, whereas `pod-image` and `pod-init-image` will match against ANY container or init container in the Pod, 
> respectively.

## Examples

To use the kubelet read-only port:

```
WorkloadAttestor "k8s" {
  plugin_data {
    kubelet_read_only_port = 10255
  }
}
```

To use the secure kubelet port, verify via `/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/ca.crt`, and authenticate via the default service account token:

```
WorkloadAttestor "k8s" {
  plugin_data {
  }
}
```

To use the secure kubelet port, skip verification, and authenticate via the default service account token:

```
WorkloadAttestor "k8s" {
  plugin_data {
    skip_kubelet_verification = true
  }
}
```

To use the secure kubelet port, skip verification, and authenticate via some other token:

```
WorkloadAttestor "k8s" {
  plugin_data {
    skip_kubelet_verification = true
    token_path = "/path/to/token"
  }
}
```

To use the secure kubelet port, verify the kubelet certificate, and authenticate via an X509 client certificate:

```
WorkloadAttestor "k8s" {
  plugin_data {
    kubelet_ca_path = "/path/to/kubelet-ca.pem"
    certificate_path = "/path/to/cert.pem"
    private_key_path = "/path/to/key.pem"
  }
}
```
